# DataAnalysis--Bellabeat-smart-products
#### Analysis of FitBit Fitness Tracker Data to gain insights into how consumers are using the FitBit app.

##### Bellabeat: How Can A Wellness Technology Company Play It Smart?

Background: Bellabeat is a high-tech manufacturer of beautifully-designed health-focused smart products for women since 2013. Inspiring and empowering women with knowledge about their own health and habits, Bellabeat has grown rapidly and quickly positioned itself as a tech-driven wellness company for females. 
The co-founder and Chief Creative Officer, Urška Sršen is confident that an analysis of non-Bellebeat consumer data (ie. FitBit fitness tracker usage data) would reveal more opportunities for growt

Business Analyze: FitBit Fitness Tracker Data to gain insights into how consumers are using the FitBit app and discover trends and insights for Bellabeat marketing strategy.

##### Business Objectives: 
<ol type="1">
    <li>What are the trends identified?</li> 
    <li>How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers?</li> 
    <li>How could these trends help influence Bellabeat marketing strategy?</li>
</ol>

##### Deliverables: 
<ol type="1">
    <li>A clear summary of the business task</li>
    <li>A description of all data sources used.</li>
    <li>Documentation of any cleaning or manipulation of data.</li>
    <li>A summary of analysis Supporting visualizations and key findings.</li>
</ol>

##### Information on Data Source
<ol type="i">
    <li>The data is publicly available on <a href="https://www.kaggle.com/datasets/arashnic/fitbit">Kaggle: FitBit Fitness Tracker Data</a> and stored in 18 csv files.</li>
    <li>Generated by respondents from a distributed survey via Amazon Mechanical Turk between 12 March 2016 to 12 May 2016.</li>
    <li>30 FitBit users who consented to the submission of personal tracker data.</li>
    <li>Data collected includes (1) physical activity recorded in minutes, (2) heart rate, (3) sleep monitoring, (4) daily activity and (5) steps.</li>
</ol>

#####  Limitations of Data Set:
<ol type ="i">
    <li>Data collected from year 2016.  Users' daily activity, fitness and sleeping habits, diet and food consumption may have changed since then, hence data may not be timely or relevant.</li>
    <li>Sample size of 30 female FitBit users is not representative of the entire female population.</li>
    <li>As data is collected in a survey, hence unable to ascertain the integrity or accuracy of data.</li>
</ol>

##### Is Data ROCCC?

A good data source is ROCCC which stands for Reliable, Original, Comprehensive, Current, and Cited.
<ol type = "i">
    <li>Reliable - LOW - Not reliable as it only has 30 respondents</li>
    <li>Original - LOW - Third party provider (Amazon Mechanical Turk)</li>
    <li>Comprehensive - MED - Parameters match most of Bellabeat's products' parameters</li>
    <li>Current - LOW - Data is 5 years old and is not relevant</li>
    <li>Cited - LOW - Data collected from third party, hence unknown</li>
</ol>

Overall, the dataset is considered bad quality data and it is not recommended to produce business recommendations based on this data.

#### Insights and recommendations based on our analysis.

Revisit our business questions and share high-level business recommendations.<br>

#### 1. What are the trends identified?
<ul>
    <li>Majority of users (81.3%) are using the FitBit app to track sedentary activities and not using it for tracking their health habits.</li>
    <li>Users prefer to track their activities during weekdays as compared to weekends - perhaps because they spend more time outside on weekdays and stay in on weekends.</li>
    <li>The average number of steps taken daily is around 7405. According to the CDC: higher daily step counts were associated with lower mortality risk from all causes.</li>
    <li>There is a linear relation between steps taken and calories burned.</li>
    <li>Regarding sleeping habits, there was a clear decrease of sedentary minutes as the number of minutes asleep increased.</li>
</ul>

#### 2. How could these trends apply to Bellabeat customers?
<ul>
    <li>Both companies develop products focused on providing women with their health, habit and fitness data and encouraging them to understand their current habits and make healthy decisions. These common trends surrounding health and fitness can very well be applied to Bellabeat customers.</li>
    <li>Our step monitor could use user data to fit a model and predict how many steps a user should take to reach a certain amount of calories burned.</li>
    <li>So, another goal of the product could be to motivate users to keep a consistent and sufficient sleeping schedule.</li>
    <li> Even healthy weight women should be encouraged to use Bellabeat products.</li>
    
</ul>

#### 3.How could these trends help influence Bellabeat marketing strategy?
<ul>
    <li><strong>Bellabeat marketing team can encourage users by educating and equipping them with knowledge about fitness benefits, suggest different types of exercise (ie. simple 10 minutes exercise on weekday and a more intense exercise on weekends) and calories intake and burnt rate information on the Bellabeat app.</strong></li>
    <li><strong>On weekends, Bellabeat app can also prompt notification to encourage users to exercise.</strong></li>
    <li><strong>Product can output the number of steps in real time, to motivate users to reach a certain number of steps daily! Since, the CDC informs us that compared with taking 4,000 steps per day, a number considered to be low for adults, taking 8,000 steps per day was associated with a 51% lower risk for all-cause mortality (or death from all causes). Taking 12,000 steps per day was associated with a 65% lower risk compared with taking 4,000 steps.</strong></li>
    <li><strong>Market by saying -Being physically active has many benefits, including reducing a person’s risk of obesity, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, and some cancers. And on a daily basis, it can help people feel better and sleep better and our Bellabeat product helps you achieve it!</strong></li>
</ul>
